docs/source/bag.rst, before:

Bag
===

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :hidden:

   bag-creation.rst
   bag-api.rst

Dask Bag implements operations like ``map``, ``filter``, ``fold``, and
``groupby`` on collections of generic Python objects.  It does this in parallel with a
small memory footprint using Python iterators.  It is similar to a parallel
version of PyToolz_ or a Pythonic version of the `PySpark RDD`_.

.. _PyToolz: https://toolz.readthedocs.io/en/latest/
.. _`PySpark RDD`: https://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/api/python/pyspark.html

Design
------

Dask bags coordinate many Python lists or Iterators, each of which forms a
partition of a larger collection.

.. raw:: html

   <iframe width="560"
           height="315"
           src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/-qIiJ1XtSv0"
           style="margin: 0 auto 20px auto; display: block;"
           frameborder="0"
           allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture"
           allowfullscreen></iframe>

Common Uses
-----------

Dask bags are often used to parallelize simple computations on unstructured or
semi-structured data like text data, log files, JSON records, or user defined
Python objects.

Execution
---------

Execution on bags provide two benefits:

1.  Parallel: data is split up, allowing multiple cores or machines to execute
    in parallel
2.  Iterating: data processes lazily, allowing smooth execution of
    larger-than-memory data, even on a single machine within a single partition


Default scheduler
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

By default, ``dask.bag`` uses ``dask.multiprocessing`` for computation.  As a
benefit, Dask bypasses the GIL_ and uses multiple cores on pure Python objects.
As a drawback, Dask Bag doesn't perform well on computations that include a
great deal of inter-worker communication.  For common operations this is rarely
an issue as most Dask Bag workflows are embarrassingly parallel or result in
reductions with little data moving between workers.

Because the multiprocessing scheduler requires moving functions between multiple
processes, we encourage that Dask Bag users also install the cloudpickle_ library to
enable the transfer of more complex functions.

.. _GIL: https://docs.python.org/3/glossary.html#term-gil
.. _cloudpickle: https://github.com/cloudpipe/cloudpickle


Shuffle
~~~~~~~

Some operations, like ``groupby``, require substantial inter-worker
communication. On a single machine, Dask uses partd_ to perform efficient,
parallel, spill-to-disk shuffles. When working in a cluster, Dask uses a task
based shuffle.

These shuffle operations are expensive and better handled by projects like
``dask.dataframe``. It is best to use ``dask.bag`` to clean and process data,
then transform it into an array or DataFrame before embarking on the more
complex operations that require shuffle steps.

.. _partd: https://github.com/mrocklin/partd


Known Limitations
-----------------

Bags provide very general computation (any Python function).  This generality
comes at cost.  Bags have the following known limitations:

1.  By default, they rely on the multiprocessing scheduler, which has its own
    set of known limitations (see :doc:`shared`)
2.  Bags are immutable and so you can not change individual elements
3.  Bag operations tend to be slower than array/DataFrame computations in the
    same way that standard Python containers tend to be slower than NumPy
    arrays and Pandas DataFrames
4.  Bag's ``groupby`` is slow.  You should try to use Bag's ``foldby`` if possible.
    Using ``foldby`` requires more thought tough


Name
----

*Bag* is the mathematical name for an unordered collection allowing repeats. It
is a friendly synonym to multiset_. A bag, or a multiset, is a generalization of
the concept of a set that, unlike a set, allows multiple instances of the
multiset's elements:

* ``list``: *ordered* collection *with repeats*, ``[1, 2, 3, 2]``
* ``set``: *unordered* collection *without repeats*,  ``{1, 2, 3}``
* ``bag``: *unordered* collection *with repeats*, ``{1, 2, 2, 3}``

So, a bag is like a list, but it doesn't guarantee an ordering among elements.
There can be repeated elements but you can't ask for the ith element.

.. _multiset: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bag_(mathematics)

Commit message:

DOC: Link to examples.dask.org in several places

docs/source/bag.rst, after:

Bag
===

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :hidden:

   bag-creation.rst
   bag-api.rst

Dask Bag implements operations like ``map``, ``filter``, ``fold``, and
``groupby`` on collections of generic Python objects.  It does this in parallel with a
small memory footprint using Python iterators.  It is similar to a parallel
version of PyToolz_ or a Pythonic version of the `PySpark RDD`_.

.. _PyToolz: https://toolz.readthedocs.io/en/latest/
.. _`PySpark RDD`: https://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/api/python/pyspark.html

Examples
--------

Visit https://examples.dask.org/bag.html to see and run examples using Dask Bag.

Design
------

Dask bags coordinate many Python lists or Iterators, each of which forms a
partition of a larger collection.

.. raw:: html

   <iframe width="560"
           height="315"
           src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/-qIiJ1XtSv0"
           style="margin: 0 auto 20px auto; display: block;"
           frameborder="0"
           allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture"
           allowfullscreen></iframe>

Common Uses
-----------

Dask bags are often used to parallelize simple computations on unstructured or
semi-structured data like text data, log files, JSON records, or user defined
Python objects.

Execution
---------

Execution on bags provide two benefits:

1.  Parallel: data is split up, allowing multiple cores or machines to execute
    in parallel
2.  Iterating: data processes lazily, allowing smooth execution of
    larger-than-memory data, even on a single machine within a single partition


Default scheduler
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

By default, ``dask.bag`` uses ``dask.multiprocessing`` for computation.  As a
benefit, Dask bypasses the GIL_ and uses multiple cores on pure Python objects.
As a drawback, Dask Bag doesn't perform well on computations that include a
great deal of inter-worker communication.  For common operations this is rarely
an issue as most Dask Bag workflows are embarrassingly parallel or result in
reductions with little data moving between workers.

Because the multiprocessing scheduler requires moving functions between multiple
processes, we encourage that Dask Bag users also install the cloudpickle_ library to
enable the transfer of more complex functions.

.. _GIL: https://docs.python.org/3/glossary.html#term-gil
.. _cloudpickle: https://github.com/cloudpipe/cloudpickle


Shuffle
~~~~~~~

Some operations, like ``groupby``, require substantial inter-worker
communication. On a single machine, Dask uses partd_ to perform efficient,
parallel, spill-to-disk shuffles. When working in a cluster, Dask uses a task
based shuffle.

These shuffle operations are expensive and better handled by projects like
``dask.dataframe``. It is best to use ``dask.bag`` to clean and process data,
then transform it into an array or DataFrame before embarking on the more
complex operations that require shuffle steps.

.. _partd: https://github.com/mrocklin/partd


Known Limitations
-----------------

Bags provide very general computation (any Python function).  This generality
comes at cost.  Bags have the following known limitations:

1.  By default, they rely on the multiprocessing scheduler, which has its own
    set of known limitations (see :doc:`shared`)
2.  Bags are immutable and so you can not change individual elements
3.  Bag operations tend to be slower than array/DataFrame computations in the
    same way that standard Python containers tend to be slower than NumPy
    arrays and Pandas DataFrames
4.  Bag's ``groupby`` is slow.  You should try to use Bag's ``foldby`` if possible.
    Using ``foldby`` requires more thought tough


Name
----

*Bag* is the mathematical name for an unordered collection allowing repeats. It
is a friendly synonym to multiset_. A bag, or a multiset, is a generalization of
the concept of a set that, unlike a set, allows multiple instances of the
multiset's elements:

* ``list``: *ordered* collection *with repeats*, ``[1, 2, 3, 2]``
* ``set``: *unordered* collection *without repeats*,  ``{1, 2, 3}``
* ``bag``: *unordered* collection *with repeats*, ``{1, 2, 2, 3}``

So, a bag is like a list, but it doesn't guarantee an ordering among elements.
There can be repeated elements but you can't ask for the ith element.

.. _multiset: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bag_(mathematics)
