docs/source/dataframe.rst, before:

DataFrame
=========

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :hidden:

   dataframe-api.rst
   dataframe-create.rst
   dataframe-best-practices.rst
   dataframe-design.rst
   dataframe-groupby.rst
   dataframe-joins.rst
   dataframe-indexing.rst
   dataframe-categoricals.rst
   dataframe-extend.rst

A Dask DataFrame is a large parallel DataFrame composed of many smaller Pandas
DataFrames, split along the index.  These Pandas DataFrames may live on disk
for larger-than-memory computing on a single machine, or on many different
machines in a cluster.  One Dask DataFrame operation triggers many operations
on the constituent Pandas DataFrames.

.. raw:: html

   <iframe width="560"
           height="315"
           src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/AT2XtFehFSQ"
           style="margin: 0 auto 20px auto; display: block;"
           frameborder="0"
           allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture"
           allowfullscreen></iframe>

Design
------

Dask DataFrames coordinate many Pandas DataFrames/Series arranged along the
index.  A Dask DataFrame is partitioned *row-wise*, grouping rows by index value
for efficiency.  These Pandas objects may live on disk or on other machines.

.. image:: images/dask-dataframe.svg
   :alt: Dask DataFrames coordinate many Pandas DataFrames
   :width: 40%


Dask DataFrame copies the Pandas API
------------------------------------

Because the ``dask.dataframe`` application programming interface (API) is a
subset of the Pandas API, it should be familiar to Pandas users.  There are some
slight alterations due to the parallel nature of Dask:

.. code-block:: python

   >>> import dask.dataframe as dd
   >>> df = dd.read_csv('2014-*.csv')
   >>> df.head()
      x  y
   0  1  a
   1  2  b
   2  3  c
   3  4  a
   4  5  b
   5  6  c

   >>> df2 = df[df.y == 'a'].x + 1

As with all Dask collections, one triggers computation by calling the
``.compute()`` method:

.. code-block:: python

   >>> df2.compute()
   0    2
   3    5
   Name: x, dtype: int64


Common Uses and Anti-Uses
-------------------------

Dask DataFrame is used in situations where Pandas is commonly needed, usually when
Pandas fails due to data size or computation speed:

-  Manipulating large datasets, even when those datasets don't fit in memory
-  Accelerating long computations by using many cores
-  Distributed computing on large datasets with standard Pandas operations like
   groupby, join, and time series computations

Dask DataFrame may not be the best choice in the following situations:

*  If your dataset fits comfortably into RAM on your laptop, then you may be
   better off just using Pandas.  There may be simpler ways to improve
   performance than through parallelism
*  If your dataset doesn't fit neatly into the Pandas tabular model, then you
   might find more use in :doc:`dask.bag <bag>` or :doc:`dask.array <array>`
*  If you need functions that are not implemented in Dask DataFrame, then you
   might want to look at :doc:`dask.delayed <delayed>` which offers more
   flexibility
*  If you need a proper database with all that databases offer you might prefer
   something like Postgres_

.. _Pandas: https://pandas.pydata.org/
.. _Postgres: https://www.postgresql.org/


Scope
-----

Dask DataFrame covers a well-used portion of the Pandas API.
The following class of computations works well:

* Trivially parallelizable operations (fast):
    *  Element-wise operations:  ``df.x + df.y``, ``df * df``
    *  Row-wise selections:  ``df[df.x > 0]``
    *  Loc:  ``df.loc[4.0:10.5]``
    *  Common aggregations:  ``df.x.max()``, ``df.max()``
    *  Is in:  ``df[df.x.isin([1, 2, 3])]``
    *  Date time/string accessors:  ``df.timestamp.month``
* Cleverly parallelizable operations (fast):
    *  groupby-aggregate (with common aggregations): ``df.groupby(df.x).y.max()``,
       ``df.groupby('x').max()``
    *  groupby-apply on index: ``df.groupby(['idx', 'x']).apply(myfunc)``, where
       ``idx`` is the index level name
    *  value_counts:  ``df.x.value_counts()``
    *  Drop duplicates:  ``df.x.drop_duplicates()``
    *  Join on index:  ``dd.merge(df1, df2, left_index=True, right_index=True)``
       or ``dd.merge(df1, df2, on=['idx', 'x'])`` where ``idx`` is the index
       name for both ``df1`` and ``df2``
    *  Join with Pandas DataFrames: ``dd.merge(df1, df2, on='id')``
    *  Element-wise operations with different partitions / divisions: ``df1.x + df2.y``
    *  Date time resampling: ``df.resample(...)``
    *  Rolling averages:  ``df.rolling(...)``
    *  Pearson's correlation: ``df[['col1', 'col2']].corr()``
* Operations requiring a shuffle (slow-ish, unless on index)
    *  Set index:  ``df.set_index(df.x)``
    *  groupby-apply not on index (with anything):  ``df.groupby(df.x).apply(myfunc)``
    *  Join not on the index:  ``dd.merge(df1, df2, on='name')``

However, Dask DataFrame does not implement the entire Pandas interface.  Users
expecting this will be disappointed.  Notably, Dask DataFrame has the following
limitations:

1.  Setting a new index from an unsorted column is expensive
2.  Many operations like groupby-apply and join on unsorted columns require
    setting the index, which as mentioned above, is expensive
3.  The Pandas API is very large.  Dask DataFrame does not attempt to implement
    many Pandas features or any of the more exotic data structures like NDFrames
4.  Operations that were slow on Pandas, like iterating through row-by-row,
    remain slow on Dask DataFrame

See :doc:`DataFrame API documentation<dataframe-api>` for a more extensive list.


Execution
---------

By default, Dask DataFrame uses the multi-threaded scheduler.
This exposes some parallelism when Pandas or the underlying NumPy operations
release the global interpreter lock (GIL).  Generally, Pandas is more GIL
bound than NumPy, so multi-core speed-ups are not as pronounced for
Dask DataFrame as they are for Dask Array.  This is changing, and
the Pandas development team is actively working on releasing the GIL.

When dealing with text data, you may see speedups by switching to the newer
:doc:`distributed scheduler <setup/single-distributed>` either on a cluster or
single machine.

Commit message:

DOC: Link to examples.dask.org in several places

docs/source/dataframe.rst, after:

DataFrame
=========

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :hidden:

   dataframe-api.rst
   dataframe-create.rst
   dataframe-best-practices.rst
   dataframe-design.rst
   dataframe-groupby.rst
   dataframe-joins.rst
   dataframe-indexing.rst
   dataframe-categoricals.rst
   dataframe-extend.rst

A Dask DataFrame is a large parallel DataFrame composed of many smaller Pandas
DataFrames, split along the index.  These Pandas DataFrames may live on disk
for larger-than-memory computing on a single machine, or on many different
machines in a cluster.  One Dask DataFrame operation triggers many operations
on the constituent Pandas DataFrames.

.. raw:: html

   <iframe width="560"
           height="315"
           src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/AT2XtFehFSQ"
           style="margin: 0 auto 20px auto; display: block;"
           frameborder="0"
           allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture"
           allowfullscreen></iframe>

Examples
--------

Visit https://examples.dask.org/dataframe.html to see and run examples using
Dask DataFrame.

Design
------

Dask DataFrames coordinate many Pandas DataFrames/Series arranged along the
index.  A Dask DataFrame is partitioned *row-wise*, grouping rows by index value
for efficiency.  These Pandas objects may live on disk or on other machines.

.. image:: images/dask-dataframe.svg
   :alt: Dask DataFrames coordinate many Pandas DataFrames
   :width: 40%


Dask DataFrame copies the Pandas API
------------------------------------

Because the ``dask.dataframe`` application programming interface (API) is a
subset of the Pandas API, it should be familiar to Pandas users.  There are some
slight alterations due to the parallel nature of Dask:

.. code-block:: python

   >>> import dask.dataframe as dd
   >>> df = dd.read_csv('2014-*.csv')
   >>> df.head()
      x  y
   0  1  a
   1  2  b
   2  3  c
   3  4  a
   4  5  b
   5  6  c

   >>> df2 = df[df.y == 'a'].x + 1

As with all Dask collections, one triggers computation by calling the
``.compute()`` method:

.. code-block:: python

   >>> df2.compute()
   0    2
   3    5
   Name: x, dtype: int64


Common Uses and Anti-Uses
-------------------------

Dask DataFrame is used in situations where Pandas is commonly needed, usually when
Pandas fails due to data size or computation speed:

-  Manipulating large datasets, even when those datasets don't fit in memory
-  Accelerating long computations by using many cores
-  Distributed computing on large datasets with standard Pandas operations like
   groupby, join, and time series computations

Dask DataFrame may not be the best choice in the following situations:

*  If your dataset fits comfortably into RAM on your laptop, then you may be
   better off just using Pandas.  There may be simpler ways to improve
   performance than through parallelism
*  If your dataset doesn't fit neatly into the Pandas tabular model, then you
   might find more use in :doc:`dask.bag <bag>` or :doc:`dask.array <array>`
*  If you need functions that are not implemented in Dask DataFrame, then you
   might want to look at :doc:`dask.delayed <delayed>` which offers more
   flexibility
*  If you need a proper database with all that databases offer you might prefer
   something like Postgres_

.. _Pandas: https://pandas.pydata.org/
.. _Postgres: https://www.postgresql.org/


Scope
-----

Dask DataFrame covers a well-used portion of the Pandas API.
The following class of computations works well:

* Trivially parallelizable operations (fast):
    *  Element-wise operations:  ``df.x + df.y``, ``df * df``
    *  Row-wise selections:  ``df[df.x > 0]``
    *  Loc:  ``df.loc[4.0:10.5]``
    *  Common aggregations:  ``df.x.max()``, ``df.max()``
    *  Is in:  ``df[df.x.isin([1, 2, 3])]``
    *  Date time/string accessors:  ``df.timestamp.month``
* Cleverly parallelizable operations (fast):
    *  groupby-aggregate (with common aggregations): ``df.groupby(df.x).y.max()``,
       ``df.groupby('x').max()``
    *  groupby-apply on index: ``df.groupby(['idx', 'x']).apply(myfunc)``, where
       ``idx`` is the index level name
    *  value_counts:  ``df.x.value_counts()``
    *  Drop duplicates:  ``df.x.drop_duplicates()``
    *  Join on index:  ``dd.merge(df1, df2, left_index=True, right_index=True)``
       or ``dd.merge(df1, df2, on=['idx', 'x'])`` where ``idx`` is the index
       name for both ``df1`` and ``df2``
    *  Join with Pandas DataFrames: ``dd.merge(df1, df2, on='id')``
    *  Element-wise operations with different partitions / divisions: ``df1.x + df2.y``
    *  Date time resampling: ``df.resample(...)``
    *  Rolling averages:  ``df.rolling(...)``
    *  Pearson's correlation: ``df[['col1', 'col2']].corr()``
* Operations requiring a shuffle (slow-ish, unless on index)
    *  Set index:  ``df.set_index(df.x)``
    *  groupby-apply not on index (with anything):  ``df.groupby(df.x).apply(myfunc)``
    *  Join not on the index:  ``dd.merge(df1, df2, on='name')``

However, Dask DataFrame does not implement the entire Pandas interface.  Users
expecting this will be disappointed.  Notably, Dask DataFrame has the following
limitations:

1.  Setting a new index from an unsorted column is expensive
2.  Many operations like groupby-apply and join on unsorted columns require
    setting the index, which as mentioned above, is expensive
3.  The Pandas API is very large.  Dask DataFrame does not attempt to implement
    many Pandas features or any of the more exotic data structures like NDFrames
4.  Operations that were slow on Pandas, like iterating through row-by-row,
    remain slow on Dask DataFrame

See :doc:`DataFrame API documentation<dataframe-api>` for a more extensive list.


Execution
---------

By default, Dask DataFrame uses the multi-threaded scheduler.
This exposes some parallelism when Pandas or the underlying NumPy operations
release the global interpreter lock (GIL).  Generally, Pandas is more GIL
bound than NumPy, so multi-core speed-ups are not as pronounced for
Dask DataFrame as they are for Dask Array.  This is changing, and
the Pandas development team is actively working on releasing the GIL.

When dealing with text data, you may see speedups by switching to the newer
:doc:`distributed scheduler <setup/single-distributed>` either on a cluster or
single machine.
