docs/source/support.rst, before:

Community
=========

Dask is used and developed by individuals at a variety of institutions.  It
sits within the broader Python numeric ecosystem commonly referred to as PyData
or SciPy.

Discussion
----------

Conversation happens in the following places:

1.  **Usage questions** are directed to `Stack Overflow with the #dask tag`_.
    Dask developers monitor this tag and get e-mails whenever a question is
    asked
2.  **Bug reports and feature requests** are managed on the `GitHub issue
    tracker`_
3.  **Chat** occurs on at `gitter.im/dask/dask <https://gitter.im/dask/dask>`_
    for general conversation and `gitter.im/dask/dev
    <https://gitter.im/dask/dev>`_ for developer conversation.  Note that
    because gitter chat is not searchable by future users we discourage usage
    questions and bug reports on gitter and instead ask people to use Stack
    Overflow or GitHub.
4.  **Monthly developer meeting** happens the first Thursday of the month at
    4pm UTC (11am in New York, 8am in Los Angeles, 12am in Beijing) at
    https://appear.in/dask-dev

.. _`Stack Overflow with the #dask tag`: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/dask
.. _`GitHub issue tracker`: https://github.com/dask/dask/issues/


Asking for help
---------------

We welcome usage questions and bug reports from all users, even those who are
new to using the project.  There are a few things you can do to improve the
likelihood of quickly getting a good answer.

1.  **Ask questions in the right place**:  We strongly prefer the use
    of Stack Overflow or GitHub issues over Gitter chat.  GitHub and
    Stack Overflow are more easily searchable by future users, and therefore is more
    efficient for everyone's time.  Gitter chat is strictly reserved for
    developer and community discussion.

    If you have a general question about how something should work or
    want best practices then use Stack Overflow.  If you think you have found a
    bug then use GitHub

2.  **Ask only in one place**: Please restrict yourself to posting your
    question in only one place (likely Stack Overflow or GitHub) and don't post
    in both

3.  **Create a minimal example**:  It is ideal to create `minimal, complete,
    verifiable examples <https://stackoverflow.com/help/mcve>`_.  This
    significantly reduces the time that answerers spend understanding your
    situation, resulting in higher quality answers more quickly.

    See also `this blogpost
    <http://matthewrocklin.com/blog/work/2018/02/28/minimal-bug-reports>`_
    about crafting minimal bug reports.  These have a much higher likelihood of
    being answered


Paid support
------------
In addition to the previous options, paid support is available from

-   Anaconda: `<https://www.anaconda.com/support>`_
-   Quansight: `<https://www.quansight.com/open-source-support>`_

Commit message:

DOC: Update meeting info
Closes #4892

docs/source/support.rst, after:

Community
=========

Dask is used and developed by individuals at a variety of institutions.  It
sits within the broader Python numeric ecosystem commonly referred to as PyData
or SciPy.

Discussion
----------

Conversation happens in the following places:

1.  **Usage questions** are directed to `Stack Overflow with the #dask tag`_.
    Dask developers monitor this tag and get e-mails whenever a question is
    asked
2.  **Bug reports and feature requests** are managed on the `GitHub issue
    tracker`_
3.  **Chat** occurs on at `gitter.im/dask/dask <https://gitter.im/dask/dask>`_
    for general conversation and `gitter.im/dask/dev
    <https://gitter.im/dask/dev>`_ for developer conversation.  Note that
    because gitter chat is not searchable by future users we discourage usage
    questions and bug reports on gitter and instead ask people to use Stack
    Overflow or GitHub.
4.  **Monthly developer meeting** happens the first Thursday of the month at
    11:00 US Central Time in https://appear.in/dask-dev. Subscribe to
    `this Google Calendar invite`_ to be notified of changes to the meeting
    schedule. Meeting notes are available at https://docs.google.com/document/d/1UqNAP87a56ERH_xkQsS5Q_0PKYybd5Lj2WANy_hRzI0/edit

.. _`Stack Overflow with the #dask tag`: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/dask
.. _`GitHub issue tracker`: https://github.com/dask/dask/issues/
.. _`this Google Canedar invite`: https://calendar.google.com/event?action=TEMPLATE&tmeid=NmxnamVvcGtjY3E2NGI5bTZzcW1hYjlrYzhybTZiYjFjY29qOGI5ZzY0cWoyYzFrNjFpMzhwaGlja18yMDE5MDYwNlQxNjAwMDBaIDRsMHZ0czBjMWNnZGJxNWpoY29najU1c2ZzQGc&tmsrc=4l0vts0c1cgdbq5jhcogj55sfs%40group.calendar.google.com&scp=ALL


Asking for help
---------------

We welcome usage questions and bug reports from all users, even those who are
new to using the project.  There are a few things you can do to improve the
likelihood of quickly getting a good answer.

1.  **Ask questions in the right place**:  We strongly prefer the use
    of Stack Overflow or GitHub issues over Gitter chat.  GitHub and
    Stack Overflow are more easily searchable by future users, and therefore is more
    efficient for everyone's time.  Gitter chat is strictly reserved for
    developer and community discussion.

    If you have a general question about how something should work or
    want best practices then use Stack Overflow.  If you think you have found a
    bug then use GitHub

2.  **Ask only in one place**: Please restrict yourself to posting your
    question in only one place (likely Stack Overflow or GitHub) and don't post
    in both

3.  **Create a minimal example**:  It is ideal to create `minimal, complete,
    verifiable examples <https://stackoverflow.com/help/mcve>`_.  This
    significantly reduces the time that answerers spend understanding your
    situation, resulting in higher quality answers more quickly.

    See also `this blogpost
    <http://matthewrocklin.com/blog/work/2018/02/28/minimal-bug-reports>`_
    about crafting minimal bug reports.  These have a much higher likelihood of
    being answered


Paid support
------------
In addition to the previous options, paid support is available from

-   Anaconda: `<https://www.anaconda.com/support>`_
-   Quansight: `<https://www.quansight.com/open-source-support>`_
